I'm gonna tell you what I could consider
a very sad story just and hopefully this
time I won't cry sometimes I cry when I
tell the story of Andy and the wad of
paper Andy was a very very bright and
again intelligence is a hypothetical
construct but this guy he probably would
have scored really high on an
intelligence test and he would have had
high ascites and 4.0 average and all
that stuff this guy had a lot of good
social skills a lot of positive things
going for him and but but Andy when he
was about 13 or so his father left his
mother and it was a very nasty nasty
situation which I'm not gonna get into
but they had on a very ugly divorce
the father was a very wealthy man and
left the wife for a younger woman kind
of thing and then he moved to another
state to move in with that woman and and
sort of abandon Andy and and the adorn
his dad and Andy the dad was we both
around his dad he had he just worshipped
as dad so it really broke him when this
happened so he started getting in
trouble he started hanging out with the
wrong kids and doing drugs and got into
some other kind of trouble
and until the family had means and the
dad was able to make sure that he went
to a good facility where he could be
rehabilitated and treated for his
behavior problems and he's sent them to
a behavioral facility that was like 450
dollars and they kind of fancy Country
Club like place very expensive and this
was more than 20 years ago so this days
that would be over a thousand dollars a
day probably the way inflation has gone
soap and he winds up at this facility
and Andy comes in and and the sample sum
as a psychologist or some consultant had
done as a point system and level system
for for this residential facility a
one-size-fits-all kind of program and
and all the for all the kids they had
the same target behaviors everybody that
came in had to say target behaviors it
wasn't individualized and then they had
a standard set of response definitions
for all those target behaviors so
physical aggression against others there
was a standard response definition for
physical aggression against others and
everything this respect to staff and all
kinds of stuff and the staff supposedly
collected data and they didn't graph the
data but at least they were supposed to
collect data but then they had this
level system and a kid went up the
levels depending on their behaviors and
it was mostly absence of bad behavior
that got them out the levels and
supposedly they had it tied so when they
got to
the highest level then they were ready
to start looking at discharge energy and
they started doing discharge planning
and then they hope to discharge you as
soon as possible after you reached that
level and you know later on in in in
course number three five thousand and
two we'll talk about the advantages and
disadvantages of that type of
one-size-fits-all programs mostly
disadvantages Boop but right now that's
not the point of the story the one the
point of this story is that and they
came in and he learned the level system
really well so that from what I could
tell by the time I came in to consult on
the case
he knew that manual for the level system
better than any of the staff he knew it
backwards and forwards but Andy had gone
through the level system quickly and it
did always take time because that you
have to be good for a long time before
you move to the next level but he had
made it up the levels one at a time
never going back
so he got he had been there for about a
year and he made it to the highest level
and he was gonna go on this church now
Andy was kind of like the perfect kid
his behavior was better than than any of
the other ones as far as I can that were
disabilities by the finals can tell he
was really motivated to get out of there
and he was gonna do everything to get
out as fast as possible and taught me so
and I could tell based on everything I
found out when I came to consult on the
case and Andy hadn't seen his dad for
way over a year since before he even got
to the facility because that hadn't gone
back to visit him and then he went up at
the facility and then he had been in
other years so he hadn't seen his dad in
over two years
but
that was finally going to come to visit
this was before I get involved in this
case it's just an information I found
out after after that called me and
called me in for a consult but the the
way that it worked was that he was
scheduled to be discharged fairly soon
and the dad decided that he would come
pay him a visit and that that was gonna
take him out since he had all earned all
his privileges that that was gonna take
him out for a big weekend and they were
gonna go out and have lots of fun the
dad was gonna take him to nice places
and all that and he was really looking
forward to his that visit for weeks and
weeks and that's from what I heard
that's what he kept talking about a
night that's coming to visit my dad's
coming to visit well on his the day that
is that was coming to get him and pick
him up this is what happened and II
wound up in lot seclusion for physical
aggression against others and how did
this happen